docs/architecture.md, before:

# Neural Ants Architecture

This project is a browser-based simulation of ants that use small neural
networks as their brains. The aim is to create a playground for evolving
agents and a dynamic environment. The code is intentionally lightweight and
runs without any build step; simply open `main.html` in a browser.

## Components

- **Environment**: Holds global state such as food locations and terrain
  information. It spawns food items over time and exposes update and draw
  methods.
- **Ant**: Represents an individual ant with a position, sensors and actors.
- **Brain**: Processes sensor data through a tiny feed-forward network and
  returns movement commands. Networks are mutated when ants reproduce.
- **Sensors**: Collect information from the environment for an ant. They
  currently return the direction and distance to the nearest food source.
- **Actors**: Modify the ant or environment based on brain outputs (velocity
  updates).
- **Simulation**: Manages the environment and the set of ants. It accepts a
  starting ant count and a configuration object so multiple ants can compete
  from the beginning of the simulation. Responsible for updating and rendering
  everything each frame. Ants that run out of energy are removed from the
  simulation.
- **NetworkViz**: Renders the neural network of the first ant onto a small
  canvas so that weights, topology and current neuron activations can be
  observed. Node labels describe the meaning of each input and output
  signal.

Each component is implemented as a plain JavaScript class in the `js/`
folder. The classes are intentionally lightweight so that the demo loads
quickly.

A simple configuration object is passed to `Simulation`, `Environment` and
`Ant` to control parameters like canvas size, food spawn rate and energy
behaviour. These parameters are exposed in `main.html` so users can tweak the
simulation without modifying the code. One such option is `initialFood`, which
sets the number of food objects that exist when the environment is first
created.
Any future parameters that meaningfully change the simulation should also be
added to this configuration so they remain user controllable.

## Additional Features

- **Energy**: Ants lose energy as they move and regain it when eating food. The
  colour of each ant reflects its current energy level.
- **Pheromones**: Ants leave short-lived pheromone dots that allow trails to be
  visualised.
- **Obstacles**: The environment spawns a few random rectangular obstacles that
  ants must navigate around.
- **Evolution**: When an ant has high energy it creates a mutated offspring,
  giving rise to a simple genetic algorithm.

## Running

Open `main.html` in any modern browser. No server is required. For local
experiments, you can also run `python -m http.server` and navigate to the
served page.

## Testing

Unit tests live in the `test/` directory and can be executed with Node's
built-in test runner:

```bash
npm test
```

The tests load the same JavaScript classes used by the browser, so no build
step is required.

Commit message:

Add stats panel and display simulation info

docs/architecture.md, after:

# Neural Ants Architecture

This project is a browser-based simulation of ants that use small neural
networks as their brains. The aim is to create a playground for evolving
agents and a dynamic environment. The code is intentionally lightweight and
runs without any build step; simply open `main.html` in a browser.

## Components

- **Environment**: Holds global state such as food locations and terrain
  information. It spawns food items over time and exposes update and draw
  methods.
- **Ant**: Represents an individual ant with a position, sensors and actors.
- **Brain**: Processes sensor data through a tiny feed-forward network and
  returns movement commands. Networks are mutated when ants reproduce.
- **Sensors**: Collect information from the environment for an ant. They
  currently return the direction and distance to the nearest food source.
- **Actors**: Modify the ant or environment based on brain outputs (velocity
  updates).
- **Simulation**: Manages the environment and the set of ants. It accepts a
  starting ant count and a configuration object so multiple ants can compete
  from the beginning of the simulation. Responsible for updating and rendering
  everything each frame. Ants that run out of energy are removed from the
  simulation.
- **NetworkViz**: Renders the neural network of the first ant onto a small
  canvas so that weights, topology and current neuron activations can be
  observed. Node labels describe the meaning of each input and output
  signal.

Each component is implemented as a plain JavaScript class in the `js/`
folder. The classes are intentionally lightweight so that the demo loads
quickly.

A simple configuration object is passed to `Simulation`, `Environment` and
`Ant` to control parameters like canvas size, food spawn rate and energy
behaviour. These parameters are exposed in `main.html` so users can tweak the
simulation without modifying the code. One such option is `initialFood`, which
sets the number of food objects that exist when the environment is first
created.
Any future parameters that meaningfully change the simulation should also be
added to this configuration so they remain user controllable.

## Additional Features

- **Energy**: Ants lose energy as they move and regain it when eating food. The
  colour of each ant reflects its current energy level.
- **Pheromones**: Ants leave short-lived pheromone dots that allow trails to be
  visualised.
- **Obstacles**: The environment spawns a few random rectangular obstacles that
  ants must navigate around.
- **Evolution**: When an ant has high energy it creates a mutated offspring,
  giving rise to a simple genetic algorithm.
- **Stats panel**: A small element below the start button shows the number of
  ants, food items and average energy each frame so the simulation's progress
  can be monitored.

## Running

Open `main.html` in any modern browser. No server is required. For local
experiments, you can also run `python -m http.server` and navigate to the
served page.

## Testing

Unit tests live in the `test/` directory and can be executed with Node's
built-in test runner:

```bash
npm test
```

The tests load the same JavaScript classes used by the browser, so no build
step is required.
